Cleaning and Filtering of Tables:

Step 1:
For each table, the first cleaning done is to iterate over each column and 
to remove the columns that are of little use to BareTQL. The columns that 
are of little use are the ones that are one of the following:
- empty
- are on average too long
- are all punctuation 
- repetitive
A column is considered empty if 80% or more of the entries are empty. A 
column is considered too long if the average length of the column entries 
is greater than 40 characters. A column is considered all punctuation if 
each entry in the column consists of punctuation characters. A column is 
considered repetitive if each entry is the same.

Step 2:
BareTQL assumes the first column is the primary key column of the table 
thus, cleaning and filtering is required to make sure this assumption is 
valid. As well, textual key columns are preferred over numeric or date 
key columns because textual columns are more descriptive and thus BareTQL 
expects query keys to be textual.
We remove the key column if it is the row number of the row (the first 
entry of row 1 is "1", the first entry of row 2 is "2", ..., the first 
entry of row n is "n"). Afterwards, we determine if the current first 
column is an appropriate key column by:
- checking if the key column is textual
- check that key column has unique entries
- more than 3 entries that contain no punctuation other than -,.
A key column is textual if all of it's entries are not in date format, 
numeric or a combination of numbers and punctuation. A key column is unique 
if there are no duplicate entries.
If any of these conditions are violated we try to see if there is any other 
column that can fulfill these conditions. If there is at least one column 
that fulfills the above conditions, we shift each column to the right by 1 
and put the leftmost column that fulfills these conditions as the key 
column. If there is no column that fulfills the conditions above, we remove 
the table.

Step 3:
After having shifted the key columns, we remove all rows that have an empty 
key entry.

Step 4:
We iterate over all columns again and make sure that none of them are:
- empty
- a combination of punctuation and integers
A column is considered empty if 80% or more of the entries are empty. A 
column is considered to be a combination of punctuation and integers if 
there are fewer than 3 entries that are not made up of all punctuation and 
integers.

Step 5:
If there are fewer than 3 rows or if there are no more columns, we discard 
this table as it does not have much to contribute to our collection of 
tables.

Statistics:
Here are some of the statistics of the number of tables, rows and columns 
that are filtered at each step of filtering mentioned above. These 
statistics have been calculated using a dataset of 1.6 million web tables 
from wikipedia. This dataset belongs to 
http://websail-fe.cs.northwestern.edu/TabEL/.

To begin, this dataset has:
1,652,771 Tables
8,196,081 Columns
18,035,365 Rows

After step 1 which removes columns of little use (empty, are on average 
too long, are all punctuation, repetitive):
1,263,694 Tables remain (389,077 tables were removed)
2,142,802 columns removed

After step 2 which assures the first column is textual, unique, and has 
at least 3 entries without punctuation (excluding -,.):
358,770 Tables remain (904,924 Tables removed for not having a good enough key)
167,135 'Row number' columns removed

After step 3 which removes rows with an empty key (empty 1st column):
358,770 Tables remain (0 tables removed)
13,721 rows removed

After step 4 which removes columns that are either empty or punctuation:
358,770 Tables remain( (0 tables removed)
351 columns removed

After step 5 which removes tables if they have no more columns or 
fewer than 3 rows:
332,830 Tables (25,940 tables removed)

Steps 3 and 4 contribute to the number of tables removed in step 5.